# Question - 1
(a) Draw the diagram of Von Neumann architecture and explain the various parts properly.  
(b) Find the floating point number representation of (-24.25) using IEEE 754 standard.  
(c) What are the Little-Endian Storage and Big-Endian Storage Methods? Explain.

# Question - 2
(a) Compare between RISC and CISC.  
(b) Write down the types of operations with proper examples.  
(c) What is addressing mode? Explain the types of addressing modes.

# Question - 3
(a) What is addressing mode? Describe various addressing modes with appropriate examples.  
(b) In MIPS register $s0 to $s7 map into registers $0 to $7 and registers $t0 to $t7 map into registers $8 to $15. Each of the instructions is 32 bits (I-type or R-type). Consider the following operation:  
A [300] = h + A [300].  
Where $t1 has the base of the array A and $s2 corresponds to h.  
i. Write the equivalent MIPS representation using the register notation.  
ii. Show the decimal representation of your MIPS representation.  
(c) Explain the following instruction of MIPS:  
i. Shift Left Logical  
ii. Set on less than  
iii. Branch if equal

# Question - 4
(a) Explain Direct Mapped Cache system with appropriate figure.  
(b) How write buffer and write-back mechanism can handle the handling cache miss?  
(c) Assume there are three small caches, each consisting of four one-word blocks. One cache is fully associative, a second is two-way set-associative, and the third is direct-mapped. Find the number of misses for each cache organization given the following sequence of block addresses: 0, 8, 0, 6, and 8.

# Question - 5  
(a) Design and describe a 4-bit Carry Look Ahead Adder.  
(b) What is Combinational Array Multiplier? Design a 4 x 4 bit combinational array multiplier.  
(c) What are the advantages of a pipeline processor?

# Question - 6  
(a) Write down the formula for calculating the total number of bits in a direct mapped cache. How many bits are required for a direct-mapped cache with 16 KB of data and 4-word blocks, assuming a 32-bit address?  
(b) What is cache miss? Write down the steps to handle cache miss.  
(c) What is set associative cache? How to locate a block in a cache?

# Question - 7  
(a) Draw the diagram of single cycle datapath design and write down the effect of the following control signals:  
i. RegDst  
ii. ALUSrc  
iii. MemtoReg  
(b) In a single cycle datapath MIPS maintain a separate ALU to execute various instructions. The ALU takes a 2-bits input signal and generates 4-bits control signal. State the table of the 4-bit control signal for ADD, STORE, OR and AND operation.

# Question - 8  
(a) What is pipelining? Illustrate the timing diagram for instruction pipeline operation.  
(b) Define pipeline Hazards. Describe three different types of pipeline hazards.  
(c) What is signed magnitude number?
