# Question - 1
(a) What do you mean by computer organization and computer architecture?  
(b) Explain the following dedicated CPU registers:  
   (i) PC, (ii) IR, (iii) SP, and (iv) Flag Registers  
(c) Describe the various parts of a computer according to Von Neumann Architecture.

# Question - 2
(a) Form a relationship between performance and execution time. If computer A runs a program in 10 seconds and computer B runs the same program in 15 seconds, how much faster is A than B?  
(b) Answer the following from table-1 and table-2:  
   i. Which code sequence executes the most instructions?  
   ii. Which will be faster?  
   iii. What is the CPI for each sequence?  

**Table 1**

| CPI for this instruction class | A | B | C |
|---------------------------------|---|---|---|
| CPI                             | 1 | 2 | 3 |

**Table 2**

| Code Sequence | A | B | C |
|----------------|---|---|---|
| 1              | 2 | 1 | 2 |
| 2              | 4 | 1 | 1 |

# Question - 3
(a) Explain the basic format of a floating point number. Why data normalization is done?  
(b) Write about Big-Endian and Little-Endian storage method. What do tags do?  
(c) What is the binary representation for the single-precision floating point number that corresponds to N = -12.25₁₀? What is the normalized binary representation for the number?

# Question - 4
(a) What is instruction set architecture (ISA)? Write the differences of RISC and CISC.  
(b) Explain direct addressing and indirect addressing mode in brief with examples.  
(c) Draw the flowchart for Booth Algorithm for multiplication and explain it with example of A×B, where A = 1101₂ and B = 1110₂.

# Question - 5
(a) Briefly write about MIPS. What are exception and interrupt?  
(b) What is spilling? Explain virtual memory.  
(c) What is mapping process? Briefly explain the Associative mapping and direct mapping.

# Question - 6
(a) Write down the techniques for I/O operation. Describe direct memory access.  
(b) What is interrupt driven I/O? What the drawbacks are of programmed and interrupt driven I/O?  
(c) What is cache coherence? Write the hardware and software based solutions of cache coherence.

# Question - 7
(a) What is cluster? Compare clusters with symmetric multiprocessors (SMP).  
(b) How cache miss is handled by the write buffer and write back mechanism?  
(c) Describe about loop buffers. Draw the branch prediction state diagram.

# Question - 8
(a) How write buffer and write back mechanism handles the cache miss?  
(b) What is cluster? Compare clusters with symmetric multiprocessors (SMP).  
(c) What is array multiplier? Illustrate a 5X5 array multiplier.
