
# 1. 

 (a) Define user CPU time and system CPU time.

 (b) Differentiate between system performance and CPU performance.

 (c) Can’t we make CPU faster with faster clock?

 (d) Our favourite program runs in 10 seconds on computer A, which has a 2 GHz clock. We are trying to help a computer designer build a computer, B, which will run this program in 6 seconds. The designer has determined that a substantial increase in the clock rate is possible, but this increase will affect the rest of the CPU design, causing computer B to require 1.2 times as many clock cycles as computer A for this program. What clock rate should we tell the designer to target?

 (e) Why clock cycle plays a crucial role in sequential circuit?

---

# 2.

 (a) Differentiate between Big-Endian and Little-Endian storage method.

 (b) Suppose we have two implementations of the same instruction set architecture. Computer A has a clock cycle time of 250 ps and a CPI of 2.0 for some program, and computer B has a clock cycle time of 500 ps and a CPI of 1.2 for the same program. Which computer is faster for this program and by how much?

 (c) A compiler designer is trying to decide between two code sequences for a particular computer. The hardware designers have supplied the following facts:

| **CPI for each instruction class** | A  | B  | C  |
|------------------------------------|----|----|----|
| **CPI**                            | 1  | 2  | 3  |

For a particular high-level language statement, the compiler writer is considering two code sequences that require the following instruction counts:

| **Code sequence** | **Instruction counts for each instruction class** |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| 1                 | A = 2, B = 1, C = 2                              |
| 2                 | A = 4, B = 1, C = 1                              |

Which code sequence executes the most instructions? Which will be faster? What is the CPI for each sequence?

---

# 3.

 (a) Here is a traditional loop in C:

```c
while (save[i] == k)
    i++;
````

In MIPS, register \$s0 to \$s7 map onto registers 16 to 23 and registers \$t0 to \$t7 map onto registers 8 to 15. Assume that i and k correspond to registers \$s3 and \$s4 and the base of the array save is in \$s6. What is the MIPS assembly code corresponding to this C segment?

 (b) Suppose register \$s0 has the binary number

`1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111 1111`
and that register \$s1 has the binary number
`0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0001`.
What are the values of registers \$t0 and \$t1 after these two instructions?

```asm
slt $t0, $s0, $s1
sltu $t1, $s0, $s1
```

 (c) Write down the execution sequence of a program using MIPS instruction.

---

# 4.

 (a) What is the purpose of Program Counter? Which is the only MIPS instruction that can access the value of the program counter?

 (b) Define Hit Time and Miss Penalty.

 (c) How many total bits are required for a direct-mapped cache with 16 KByte of data and 4-word blocks, assuming a 32-bit address?

 (d) Describe write buffer and write back mechanism for handling cache miss.

---

# 5.

 (a) Briefly write about MIPS. What are exception and interrupt?

 (b) What is spilling? Explain virtual memory.

 (c) Describe the mapping functions of memory blocks with a figure.

---

# 6.

 (a) Assume there are three small caches, each consisting of four one-word blocks. One cache is fully associative, a second is two-way set-associative, and the third is direct-mapped. Find the number of misses for each cache organization given the following sequence of block addresses: 0, 8, 6, and 8.

 (b) Add the numbers 0.5 and -0.4375 in binary using floating point addition algorithm. Show each step.

 (c) Multiply 2₁₀ × 3₁₀, or 0010₂ × 0011₂ using sequential multiplication algorithm.

---

# 7.

 (a) Perform multiplication for the following 5-bit numbers using Booth’s algorithm

**Multiplicand** = 00010
**Multiplier Q** = 11011.
Show each step clearly indicating the Booth recoding.

 (b) Explain with proper example how Structural Data Hazard occurs and how it can be resolved?

 (c) Consider the following code segment in C:

a = b + e;
c = b + f;
Here is the generated MIPS code for this segment, assuming all variables are in memory and are addressable as offsets from \$t0:

```
lw $t1, 0($t0)
lw $t2, 4($t0)
add $t3, $t1, $t2
sw $t3, 12($t0)
lw $t4, 8($t0)
add $t5, $t1, $t4
sw $t5, 16($t0)
```

Find the data hazards in the preceding code segment and reorder the instructions to avoid any pipeline stalls.

---

# 8.

 (a) Explain pipelining strategy for two stage instruction pipeline with figure.

 (b) Write down the types of data hazards and explain briefly.

 (c) Describe loop buffers. Draw the branch prediction state diagram.


