# Question - 1
(a) Define the terms “Elapsed time”, “CPU Execution Time” and “Terminate and Stay Resident”.

(b) A program is running on a specific machine with the following parameters:  
— Total Instruction Count: 10,000,000 instructions  
— Average CPI for the program: 2.5 cycles/instruction  
— CPU clock rate: 200 MHz  
What is the execution time for this program?

(c) Differentiate between “Program Counter” and “Instruction register”.

(d) Can’t we make CPU faster with faster clock? Why clock cycle plays a crucial role in sequential circuit?

(e) How Shift left logical (SLL) instruction can be used as multiplication in MIPS?

---

# Question - 2
(a) What are the conventions for function arguments, results and point of return address in MIPS?

(b) What is the drawback of 1’s complement representation? Explain with example.

(c) Differentiate between “Preserved Across Procedure Call” and “Not Preserved across Procedure Call”.

---

# Question - 3
(a) Define Cache miss. Briefly explain how cache misses are handled.

(b) How many total bits are required for a direct-mapped cache with 64KB of data and one-word blocks, assuming a 32-bit address?

(c) Assume there are three small caches, each consisting of four one-word blocks. One cache is fully associative, a second is two-way set associative, and the third is direct-mapped. Find the number of misses for each cache organization given the following sequence of block addresses: 1, 7, 6, 5, 1, and 7.

---

# Question - 4
(a) Differentiate between precision and accuracy with example.

(b) What decimal number is represented by this single precision float?

11000000.010...0000.

---

# Question - 5
(a) Define addressing mode. Classify and explain each of the addressing modes.

(b) Draw and explain the IAS structure of first-generation computer.

(c) Differentiate between address and data bus.

---

# Question - 6
(a) Explain the basic functions of a processor.

(b) What are the architectural extension mechanisms for a processor?

(c) Draw and explain the operations of an accumulator-based processor with extension features.

(d) Write down the operation for an accumulator-based processor for the operation: Z = X + Y.

---

# Question - 7
(a) Explain with both figure and MIPS code how elements are pushed into and popped out from stack.

(b) Using Restoring division algorithm, divide Divisor 4 and Dividend 6.

(c) Convert the real number -27.375 (in decimal) into IEEE 754 binary representation (Single Precision Format).

---

# Question - 8
(a) Explain with both figure and MIPS code how elements are pushed into and popped out from stack.

(b) Using Restoring division algorithm, divide Divisor 4 and Dividend 6.

(c) Convert the real number -27.375 (in base 10) into IEEE 754 binary representation (Single Precision Format).
